Add `ntfy.publish`  action to ntfy integration (#38725)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/ntfy.markdown

{% enddetails %}

## Actions

### Publish notification

For more customizable notifications, you can use the `ntfy.publish` action instead of `notify.send_message`. With `ntfy.publish`, you can take full advantage of the **ntfy** service's capabilities — including setting a priority, adding links, attachments, tags and emoji, and more.

> | Data attribute | Optional | Description                                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: since all attributes are optional: could the Optional column be removed and this table be converted into a list? And add a note instead stating that all attributes are optional.

{% enddetails %}

## Actions

### Publish notification

> For more customizable notifications, you can use the `ntfy.publish` action instead of `notify.send_message`. With `ntfy.publish`, you can take full advantage of the **ntfy** service's capabilities, including setting a priority, adding links, attachments, tags and emoji, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more customizable notifications, use the `ntfy.publish` action instead of `notify.send_message`. With `ntfy.publish`, you can take full advantage of the **ntfy** service's capabilities. These include setting a priority, adding links, attachments, tags, and emojis.
```

- `priority`: All messages have a priority, which defines how urgently your phone notifies you, depending on the configured vibration patterns, notification sounds, and visibility in the notification drawer or pop-over.
- `click`: URL that is opened when the notification is clicked.
- `delay`: Set a delay for message delivery. The minimum delay is 10 seconds, and the maximum delay is 3 days.
- `attach`: Attach images or other files by URL.
- `email`: Specify the address to forward the notification to, for example `mail@example.com`.
- `call`: Phone number to call and read the message out loud using text-to-speech. Requires ntfy Pro and prior phone number verification.
- `icon`: Include an icon that will appear next to the text of the notification. Only JPEG and PNG images are supported.

{% details "Example YAML configuration" %}

{% raw %}

```yaml
action: ntfy.publish
data:
  title: "Server Alert"
  message: "CPU usage exceeded 90%."
  priority: "5"
  click: "https://homeassistant.local"
  tags:
    - rotating_light
target:
  entity_id: notify.mytopic
```

{% endraw %}

{% enddetails %}

{% note %}

> All parameters are optional. If `message` is left empty, the notification will use the default text: `triggered`. If `priority` is not specified the default priority (3) will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All parameters are optional. If `message` is left empty, the notification will use the default text: `triggered`. If `priority` is not specified, the default priority (3) will be used.
```
